---
title: "My Rabbi Teacher"
date: "2020-10-08"
excerpt: "is better at beginnigs"
isFeatured: "false"
poemNumber: "52"
id: "177728e9-16f3-40cf-8a94-fbaf847a23fc"
location: "Unknown"
---

My rabbi teacher  
used to say that God  
is better at beginnigs  
than at endings  
it's not hard  
to come up with examples

Tonight I'm thinking of  
our own beginnings  
back in Africa  
when we were few  
and this our future  
on the planet  
beyond imagining#

Not a garden  
but a forest  
and savannah that  
stretched on forever  
wilderness we shared as equals  
with both predators and prey  
being ourselves sometimes  
the one  
sometimes the other

Shared also  
with a host of  
fellow creatures  
who were neither  
prey nor predator  
but simply there  
inhabiting a world  
with all of us inside  
a world  
with no outsiders

That world is no longer  
though a bit  
of that wild Africa survives  
guarded by men with guns  
and while we might imagine  
how a God once watched  
the dawning of that world  
he surely had no part  
in what it's come to

When my rabbi teacher taught  
that God was better  
at beginnings we all thought him  
wise and witty  
but he only spoke as one  
who'd never suffered  
through a painful birth  
nor lost a stillborn child  
in other words a man

Easy to imagine  
a world we'd not yet spoiled  
but I wonder  
were those distant ancestors  
not already dreaming  
of an Eden they had lost?

Jonathan Omer-Man  
September 17 at 5:16 PM

·

Law of Eternal Return

Yes, we shall return, yes, we will come back,  
though a checkpoint stands before us,  
an interrogation booth, a place of close examination.  
Who would confess sins with no certainty of forgiveness?  
Who would face shame with no expectation of release?  
Who would discard masks of virtue with no assurance of love?  
Uncover our iniquities  
Look at the stains  
Abolish bogus.  
Show us a sign, and we shall return.  
Offer us the life realigned  
And we will come back.
